1
2026BachelorofMedicineandBachelor
ofSurgery(MBBS)(English-taught)
Program Overview
To promote international education, Fudan University began enrolling
international students in the English-taught undergraduate medical
program in fall 2008. The program aims to nurture high-caliber medical
graduates with solid medical knowledge, competent clinical skills, and
professionalism, while giving due consideration to the possible needs for
them to serve in countries outside China. Graduates of the program will
have the ability to work in medical and health institutions, making
meaningful contributions to the areas of patient care, education, and
research.
The program follows the principles of consolidating academic
knowledge, with emphasis on technical skills, interdisciplinary studies,
and clinical practice. Excellent students will have the opportunity to
participate in overseas clinical internship programs. After completing the
required number of credits, students will be conferred a diploma from
Fudan University, and qualified students will receive a degree of
Bachelor of Medicine and the Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). Graduates
will have the opportunity to register for medical licensing exams in
accordance with the requirements of the relevant regulatory bodies of the
countries in which they choose to practice.
2
Curriculum (for reference only)
Course Categories Courses
Chinese Culture & Natural
Science Courses
Brief Introduction to China
Chinese Language
Medical Chinese
Mathematics
Physics
Chemistry
Biological Sciences
Computers
Organic Chemistry
Liberal Arts & Basic
Medicine Courses
Histoembryology
Anatomy
Cell Biology
Genetics
Physiology
Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology
Immunology
Microbiology
Parasitology
Pathophysiology
Pathology
Medical Ethics
Pharmacology
Clinical Medicine Courses
Diagnostics
Diagnostic Imaging
Medicine
Surgery
Obstetrics and Gynecology
Pediatrics
Preventive Medicine
Epidemiology
Medical Psychology
Psychiatry
Neurology
Dermatology
Oncology
Ophthalmology
Otolaryngology
Stomatology
Forensic Medicine
Traditional Chinese
Medicine
Program Duration: 6 years
Application Qualification
1. Basic Qualification:
3
(1) Non-Chinese citizens holding foreign passports.
(2) High school graduate or above, with eligibility for university
application.
(3) Physically and mentally healthy, with no criminal record.
2. Nationality Qualification:
★This requirement applies only to applicants who were born to
parent(s) with Chinese citizenship at the time of birth.
According to the < Nationality Law of the People’s Republic of
China > and the relevant provisions issued by the Ministry of Education
of China:
(1) For applicants who were born in a foreign country and have
acquired foreign citizenship at birth. The applicants’ parent
(Chinese-citizen side) must have had obtained foreign permanent
residency before the applicants’ birth. In addition, the applicant must
have a record of actual residence abroad (outside Chinese mainland/Hong
Kong/Macao/Taiwan) for at least 2 years between May 1, 2022, and April
30, 2026 (calculated in cycles from May 1 to April 30 of the following
year, 9 months of actual residence per cycle counts as one year, verified
by entry/exit stamps).
(2) For applicants who have emigrated from China and have
acquired foreign citizenship. The applicants must have obtained foreign
nationality before May 1, 2022, and completed formalities for renouncing
the Chinese citizenship. In addition, the applicants must have a record of
actual residence abroad (outside Chinese mainland/Hong
4
Kong/Macao/Taiwan) for at least 2 years between May 1, 2022, and April
30, 2026 (calculated in cycles from May 1 to April 30 of the following
year, 9 months of actual residence per cycle counts as one year, verified
by entry/exit stamps).
Application Period
Phase 1: January 1 - January 15, 2026
Phase 2: February 23 - March 6, 2026
Application and Admission Procedure:
Step 1. Take the China Scholastic Competency Assessment（CSCA）
This assessment is organized by the China Scholarship Council on
behalf of the Ministry of Education of China. Students must take the
assessment in advance and get the score report. Students may check the
time and content of the assessment on the official website (www.csca.cn)
in early October 2025.
Mandatory Assessment Subjects ：Maths ，Physics ，Chemistry
(conducted in English).
Note: For Phase 1 application, we accept the CSCA assessment
result from December 2025, while for Phase 2 application, we accept the
CSCA assessment result from both December 2025 and January 2026.
Step 2. Complete Online Application
Students must register for the online application system, log in and
complete the online application procedure (choose Personal Application
5
→ Undergraduate → MBBS), fill in required blanks and upload the
scanned copies of the required documents (Please refer to Application
Document section for required documents), then click “Submit”. The
link to online application system: https://istudent.fudan.edu.cn/apply.
Step 3. Pay the Application Fee
The application fee is 800 RMB (online payment, non-refundable).
The application is considered invalid without paying the application fee.
Step 4. Take the Interview
Students who meet the requirements will proceed to the interview,
which will primarily assess their overall qualities and communication
skills.
Step 5: Check Pre-admission Result and Pay Tuition Fee
Students may check pre-admission results for Phase 1 and Phase 2 in
the application system respectively from February 15 and April 10, 2026.
Those who qualify for pre-admission must pay the first-year tuition fee
within two weeks from the date of the result announcement to confirm
enrollment. The university accepts multiple payment methods, including
WeChat Pay, Alipay, and international cards (Visa, Mastercard, JCB).
For specific payment requirements, please refer to the email notification
after the pre-admission results are released.
Step 6: Download the Admission Notice
Students may download the formal admission notice through the
online application system from June 1st, 2026.
6
Application Documents
1. Valid Passport Identification Page. Only ordinary passports are
accepted and the expiry date should be after March 1, 2027.
2. High School Diploma. Applicants in their final year of high school
study shall provide the expected graduation certificate (Original or
notarized copy, with notarized Chinese or English translation, if original
not in Chinese or English).
3. High School Full Transcript. Original or notarized copy, with
notarized Chinese or English translation, if original not in Chinese or
English.
4. Score Report of "China Scholastic Competency Assessment"
（CSCA）.
5. English Proficiency Test Result. The following English test results
are accepted (only for applicants whose native language is not English).
Students from high school with major courses taught in English may be
waived from this requirement.
TOEFL
Code: C870
IELTS Duolingo English Test PTE Academic
≥90 ≥6.5 ≥110 ≥61
6. Two Letters of Recommendation. The letters shall be in English from
whom can attest to the quality of the applicant’s academic performance
and scholastic potential.
7. <Guarantee Statement>. Applicants who are under 18 years old by
September 1, 2026 must submit a < Guarantee Statement >. The
guarantor should be an adult, living in Chinese mainland with a stable
7
source of income.
8. Nationality & Identity Documents.
(1) Applicants who were born in a foreign country and have acquired
foreign citizenship at birth, should provide:
1) proof of obtaining foreign citizenship at birth.
2) documents to prove that one or both parents of the applicant have
acquired permanent residence of the country before the applicant’s birth.
3) all visas, exit & entry records to/from China.
(2) Applicants who have emigrated from China and have acquired foreign
citizenship, should provide:
1) document of rescission of Chinese citizenship and household
registration (Hukou).
2) document of naturalization to the foreign country.
3) all visas, exit & entry records to/from China.
Note: Applicants who previously held Travel Document or Exit-Entry
Permit of the People's Republic of China shall comply with the
requirements specified in Clause (2).
9. Proof of Non-Criminal Record.
10. Statement of Financial Capacity or Financial Support.
If the applicant is sponsored by others, please fill out the <Statement
of Financial Support for International Students>, and submit relevant
documents.
11. Other Supporting Documents. Applicants may submit additional
documents which may demonstrate comprehensive abilities along with
8
the required documents, such as award certificates or published papers.
Note: Please carefully read < Instructions on Filling in and Uploading
Documents in the Online Application System> before application.
Tuition:
75,000 RMB/year. The exact amount of tuition fee will be announced
upon enrollment.
Scholarship:
1. Shanghai Government Scholarship (Class B)
Two of the most excellent applicants who are finally admitted to the
program will be awarded Shanghai Government Scholarship (Class B)
and will be exempted from the tuition fee. Applicants will be awarded
this scholarship based on their excellent academic performance and the
admission evaluation results.
2. Fudan University International Students’ Scholarship
This scholarship is valid for excellent applicants who would like to
study at Fudan University. Applicants will be awarded by the university
based on their excellent academic performance and the admission
evaluation results.
Enrollment Time:
The date of enrollment is in late August or early September 2026.
For specific time, please refer to the formal Admission Notice.
9
Notes：
1. Please make sure all the information provided and documents uploaded
are correct and real. Once you submit the application, no additional
document is accepted. Please check the online application system and
email frequently for any update and notification.
2. Once admitted, the passport information cannot be changed prior to
registration.
3. The admitted students must go through the admission and registration
procedures in strict accordance with the requirements of Fudan
University. The original passport, visa and diploma of highest degree
conferred will be verified upon enrollment. Those who do not meet our
requirement for enrollment and registration will be disqualified from
admission.
4. Once admitted, students are not allowed to change the nationality.
5. If fraud or favoritism is found, upon verification, severe consequences
apply. If found during the application process, eligibility for admission
will be disqualified. If found prior to matriculation, matriculation
eligibility will be disqualified. If found after matriculation, admission and
student status will be cancelled.
6. The date and time mentioned above are Beijing Time.
Means of Oversight:
The admission process shall be open and the enrollment process shall
10
be fair. The whole process is under the supervision of Department of
Supervision of Fudan University.
Telephone for supervision: +86-21-55664607
Contact:
1. Inquiries about application eligibility and process
Admission Division, International Students Office, Fudan University
No.220, Handan Road, Shanghai 200433, P. R. China
Tel: +86-21-65642258 E-mail: isoadmission@fudan.edu.cn
Website: http://iso.fudan.edu.cn
Office Hour: Monday to Friday, 8:00-11:30, 13:30-17:00
(except for official public holidays)
2. Inquiries about academic eligibility, curriculum, and assessment
methods
Academic Affairs Office, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University
Room 1619, Library Building, No. 130, Dong An Road, Shanghai
200032, P. R. China
Tel: +86-21-54237368 E-mail: yxzs@fudan.edu.cn
Website: http://shmc.fudan.edu.cn/
The final explanation by the International Students Office of Fudan
University shall prevail.
11
InstructionsonFillinginandUploading
DocumentsinOnlineApplicationSystem
Instructions on filling in the application system
1. It is recommended that the Windows system and Google Chrome
browser are used for the online application system to avoid display
problems and difficulties in filling out the application form. Please do
not use Apple’s Mac system, iPad, or mobile phones.
2. “Chinese Name” is not mandatory. Please select “No Chinese Name”
if you don’t have a Chinese name.
3. Please correctly fill in 'Passport name', 'Passport number' and 'Date of
expiry of passport' (the expiry date should be after March 1st, 2027).
4. Applicants in final year of high school or university should select
“Student” in the field “Occupation/Profession”.
5. Applicants who have just graduated from high school (or college)
should fill in the name of the high school (or college) in the field
“School/Organization Currently Studying/Working In”.
6. Please correctly and completely fill in information in the module of
My Contact Information, including Contact Person/Receiver, Phone
Number, Address and Postal Code, in order for the university to reach
the applicant. The address in Chinese mainland should be written in
Chinese, while the address outside Chinese mainland should be
written in English.
7. Please fill in your complete “Educational Background” from primary
12
school till present in chronological order by clicking the “add” button.
8. “Family Members” is mandatory. Please correctly and completely fill
in information of your parents and other family members by clicking
the “add” button. One of the family members should be set as the
emergency contact person. Applicants from step-families should fill in
both birth parents and step-parents.
9. “Contact Person in China” refers to the person in China that can be
reachable during the applicants’ study period in China. If there is no
such person, please select “No Contact Person in China”.
10. “Personal Statement” must be less than 5000 English characters
(including punctuation marks and space).
11. Applicants may save the filled and uploaded information at any time,
and all information will remain. If applicants want to continue,
please modify in “My application” section.
Instructions on uploading documents in the application system
1. All uploaded files must be scanned copies in color (in PDF or JPG
format) of the original documents. For the same type of files, please
merge them into a single file in chronological order before uploading.
2. Statement of Personal Financial Capacity or Financial Support is
mandatory. The financial guarantor must be a natural person with full
civil capacity, aged above 18 with stable source of income. The
financial guarantor should truly and correctly fill in <Statement of
Financial Support for International Students>, and provide the
13
following documents: (1) Scanned copy of the guarantor’s own
passport (non-Chinese citizen) or ID (Chinese citizen); (2) The
guarantor’s own Bank Deposit Certificate (①The minimum amount
should be 100,000 RMB or equivalent foreign currency; ② The
Certificate should be original or notarized copy, with notarized
Chinese or English translation, if original is not in Chinese or
English).
3. Two recommendation letters are required, which should be signed by
the recommenders and should be original. Electronic signature is not
accepted. If the letters cannot be uploaded by the applicant, the
applicant can select “Send a link to the recommender for filling in the
recommendation letter”, and fill in the recommender’s name and
Email address. The system will send Email to the recommender with
relevant information. The recommender shall submit the letter within
15 days and no later than the application deadline. If the applicant
chooses to send a link to the recommender, please check the progress
of the recommendation letter in the application system after formally
submitting the application. If the recommender’s email is incorrectly
filled in or the content needs to re-filled in, please contact
isoadmission@fudan.edu.cn after submitting the application.
4. The ID Photo must be a recent bareheaded and full-faced color photo
with white or blue background. Black and white photo, artistic photo,
14
and selfie are not accepted.
5. In “Visa/Residence Permit” field, please upload the current valid visa
or residence permit, or visa, residence permit, exit & entry records
relevant to your stay in Chinese mainland, Hong Kong, Macau and
Taiwan region.
6. Please upload scanned copy of original transcript of whole high school
period till the time of application. Applicants who are currently
studying in university are required to upload their university
transcripts at the same time.
7. If submitting the following test scores, the validity period is 2 years
from the exam date: TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, PTE, HSK, SAT, AP,
ACT, IB, A-Level, ATAR, NCEA, Abitur, Baccalauréat Général,
Singapore Cambridge A-Level, STPM, UEC, AST.