留学生住宿规定及有关费用标准  
International Student Center Policy and Fees 
欢迎入住留学生服务中心，请务必认真阅读以下内容并遵照执行 
Welcome to International Student Center, please read this carefully and 
comply with rules 
一、留学生住宿指南 Guidance for Living 
1. 留学生入住时， 须凭 《同济大学入学通知书》 到入住校区总台办理入住手续。 住宿期间，
若需中途退宿需前来总台办理相关手续。 
When students check in, please bring your Admission Notice to the relevant 
campus and reception to proceed.During your stay(before your graduation),if you 
want to check out please come to reception to proceed relevant process. 
2. 特别提醒：留意您的护照或居留证的有效签证日期，请在有效签证日期之前到上海市公
安局外国人管理出入境管理处（浦东民生路1500号）办理相关手续。 
Special remind: please go to the Division of Aliens & Exit -Entry    
Administrationof Shanghai Public Security Bureau (Pudong Min Sheng  Rd No.1500) 
to renew your passport or your residence permit before the expiry. 
3. 按照《家具、物品登记单》 （附后）仔细阅读并认真核对房间内的家具与物品，在离校
时，工作人员将以此为据清点家具物品。  
Check all things in your room carefully from the list (Furniture). The staff 
will check all things in your room appeared on the list when you check out. 
4. 1 号楼101、103室为自助洗衣房（开放时间：8：00-22：00），2、4号楼每层厨房内设
有洗衣机。洗衣卡在总台有售。 
If you want to wash your laundry, please go to Rm.101 or Rm.103 of the 
International Students Building 1(Opening Hours:08:00--22:00). Building 2 and 
4 also gotlaundry room on each floor. Laundry card will be sold at reception. 
5.  在留学生宿舍楼内使用厨房设备需前来总台购电方可使用。 
International Students Building has cooking equipments in kitchen, it can be 
used by purchasing the electricity from reception. 
 
二、住宿登记程序 Registration process 
 
 
 
 
1. Present your admission notice to register. 
2. Present passport and staff will help proceedthe Foreign registration form. 
3. Sign furniture agreement and dorm agreement. 
4.Self-supported student needs to pay one seme ster rent fees together，students live for less than 
one semester will still be counted as one semester and rent is not refundable. 
 
三、住宿规定 Policy and Rules 
1.  自觉遵守各项中国法律、校纪校规和规章制度。 
Follow all school rules,regulations and Chinese law. 
2. 同济大学留学生宿舍仅限留学生本人居住。 
The Tongji International students dormitory is only for Tongji registered 
1．留学生
凭 《同济大
学录取通
知书》 （必
须携带） 办
理住宿登
记手续 
 
3．签订《家
具物品单》
和《住宿协
议》 
 
4．自费生须支付一个学期的
住宿费（必备）（自费生住宿
不满一个学期仍然按照一个
学期计算） 
2．出示护照
（必须携
带）并由前
台人员办理
《外国人住
宿登记表》 
 
students  to live.  
3. 留学生的住宿房间由留学生服务中心按照政策统一安排。 
The students’ rooms will be allocated by International students center only 
through the policy. 
（1）所有公费预科生、本科生、硕士研究生、普通进修生实行2 人合住（二人一间） ，博士
生、高级进修生实行单住。  
All Scholarship Pre-student, Bachelor student, Master student and Visiting 
scholar student have to share the room with another. Doctor student and advanced 
visiting scholar student will be living in the single room. 
（2） 原则上不受理公费本科生、预科生单住申请，硕士研究生、普通进修生如有特殊情况，
需由本人提出申请， 留学生服务中心视当时房源情况和其本人具体情况予以酌情处理，
但学生须支付所产生的房费差价。补差价表如下： 
Scholarship Bachelor and Pre -student are not allowed for Single room. 
Scholarship student including Master student and Visiting scholars can apply 
for single room only under some urgent situations.International students center 
will consider, however the compensation fees will be as following: 
 
（3）自费留学生办理住宿手续时，入住当天都必须一次性支付房费（长期自费生一次性支
付房费不得少于一学期） ，如合同期内退房，一个学期的房费不予退还；自费留学生在
租金到期前的30天必须向留学生服务中心提出下一个学期的续住申请， 留学生服务中
心将视房源情况予以考虑，经留学生服务中心审核通过后，学生应同时支付下一个学
期的住宿费用，若学生在规定期限内未提出申请，中心将视其为到期退房，届时将收
回房间重新分配。 
Self-supported students have to pay all the rent when you check in(For long term 
living students, it is required to pay no less than one semester rent).If you 
want to check out within the contract,the first semester rent paid is not 
refundable.Please apply for extending the Dormitory agreement (Next semester 
living) 30 days before the current rent expires, International student center 
will consider the possibility of extension according to the availability of 
room,once the application has been approved,students need to pay for next 
semester rent immediately. Students who do not contact us within the deadline 
dates,International students center will consider this as checking out when rent 
expires, the room will be reclaimed. 
4． 学生应服从服务中心对宿舍布局调整和安排。不得利用宿舍从事违反法律和学校校规的
活动。入住学生必须按指定的楼、室、床位入住，不得出借、转让、擅自变更宿舍和床
位， 不得留宿异性和外来人员。合住的同学学期中间不可变更房型， 中途如有1人退宿，
在住同学不得强占和变更房内结构，在无新同屋期间，自费生将承担整间房间费用，公
费生不可以任何理由拒绝其他学生入住或私自与其他同学合并，如有违反，将取消居住
资格，所付房费不予退还并报留办严肃处理。 
Students should comply with the arrangement by International student center. 
Students should only live in the arranged room, building, any rent-out or change 
the bed is not allowed. Any friends coming from other places can not stay 
overnight. Two students live together can not change the type of the room during 
房间类型（ kind of room） 
学生类型（type of students） 
公费生单住房费补差 按元/间/月 
1 号楼 2 号楼 4 号楼 
长期生价（prices） 60-70 70-80 70-80 
预科生、 本科生、 硕、 普进 （Preppie、Undergraduate 、
Master student and General Advanced Students ） 
1050 1350 1350 
1350 1650 1650 
your semester. Students who live in our dormitory can not change the structure 
of the room. If your roommate leaves the room, the one who still lives in can 
not change the structure. Also, for self-supported student,if your roommate 
checks out,you will need to pay the whole room rent if there is no new 
roommate.Scholarship student is not allowed to use the other bed and refuse to 
let the new roommate entering who will be arranged by the international students 
service center,scholarship students should not arrange to share the room with 
other students by student themselves. Any students who break the rule will be 
cancelled the right of living, fees will not be returned and the problem will 
be reported to the International students office. 
5.  保持宿舍内清洁，宿舍内的卫生由学生自行打扫。 
    Please keep the room clean, students are responsible for cleaning their room. 
6.  留学生在住宿期间如有异议提出换房申请， 可递交书面材料， 中心将根据具体情况处理，
如同意予以换房的，则在下一学期统一安排，中途不予处理。 
Students apply for changing the room during their stay need to present the paper 
documents.However, if the application has been approved, the change of the room 
will still be reallocated when next semester begins, no any application will 
be processed in the current semester. 
7.  学生退宿时，须结清学生宿舍的住宿费、 家具赔偿等费用后方可办理离校手续。退房后，
不要将私人物品滞留在宿舍内，否则将作为无主物品处理，退房时间以还钥匙或门卡为
准，遗留物品将作废弃物品处理。 
When you are checking out, all the fees including rent, furniture damages should 
be paid first. After checking out, all the belongings should not be kept in your 
room, otherwise they will be disposed of as waste. The time of checking out will 
be confirmed when the keys or room card returned.  
8.  学生遗失钥匙或门卡， 须及时带有效证件到留学生服务中心前台登记补办并承担相关费
用。 
Any loss of the room key or room card,please come to reception to apply for new 
ones and pay relevant fees. 
9.  遇到特殊情况不能按时退房者， 应及时与留学生服务中心联系并在审核同意后办理居住
延长手续。到合同规定的居住截止日期未退房且未与总台取得联系者，其房内物品将作
废弃物处理。 
Any students who need to stay longer than planned please contact us first for 
extending,and after the application being approved,International student 
center will process.Students who do not check out or contact us when the 
agreement expires, all the belongings will be disposed of as waste. 
10. 自觉遵守《访客制度》并主动配合安保人员做好工作。留学生有义务督促来访者进入留
学生大楼时进行访客登记，离开时注销。 （访客时间 8:00am-22:00pm） 
Voluntarily comply with the Visiting Rules and cooperation is needed, visitors 
are required to register for entering and cancel for leaving.(Visiting time: 
8:00 am -22:00 pm) 
11. 厨房内安全使用电磁炉及微波炉， 电磁炉及微波炉仅用于食物烧煮， 严禁用于其他用途。
严禁私自将厨房电器搬到房间里或其他地方。烧煮时须在场照看，防止食物溢出和食物
烧干，损坏电器或引起火灾。严禁在房内、阳台以及任何安全通道上烹饪。如违反规定
造成损坏或事故的，须负责赔偿并承担相关法律责任。 
Take care of induction cooker and microwave when you are using the kitchen, and 
switch it off when finishing, it is required for students who will bear the legal 
responsibility for any damage. The cooking stuff is only used for cooking food, 
any other usage and moving it to the room or any place is strictly forbidden. 
Make sure you will be around when cooking food,it is forbidden to cook anything 
in the room, in the aisle or in the balcony,students are responsible for any 
accident incurred through misusing.  
12. 增强安全意识， 提高自我防范能力， 离开房间时要关闭门窗、 关闭水源、切断所有电源。
电源插座周围避免堆积杂物、易燃物；贵重物品妥善保管，大额现金及时存入银行。 
Do keep your belongings safe, please close the windows, lock the door and switch 
off the water, switch off all power when you leave the room.Do not leave any 
inflammable things around the power socket. Do not leave a lot of cash in your 
room. 
13. 提高防火安全意识；严禁在宿舍楼内使用蜡烛等明火，严禁焚烧纸张、物品等；严禁故
意损坏、擅自挪用消防器材，发现损坏及时报告工作人员；严禁在宿舍楼内存放易燃、
易爆、有毒、有害物品由此造成事故的，须负责赔偿并承担相关法律责任。万一发生火
情，要镇静应对，积极灭火，及时报告，必要时有序疏散（疏散路线图见房门后） 。 
    Improve fire emergency safety awareness.Fire and flame, candle are forbidden 
to be used in the dormitory,burning any paper,any item and etc is also forbidden 
in the dormitory.Move and destroy any fire distinguisher is strictly forbidden, 
tell the staff immediately if destroyed. Students should not store any 
inflammable, explosive，poisonous and dangerous goods in your room, it is 
required for students who will bear the legal responsibility for any damage. 
In case of fire, please be calm and put out the fire as quickly as you can, inform 
the staff in time, evacuate orderly if necessary. (Please find the attached chart 
of the evacuation route behind your door.) 
14. 节约水电，人走熄灯，关闭电器，杜绝长流水。用电实行定额补贴超额部分由学生自行
购买。 
Do not waste any power, water. Make sure you switch electricity off when you 
are not in the room. Fees should be paid when power usage exceeding compensated 
fixed amount. 
15. 楼梯口、走道、阳台等公共区域均属于安全逃生通道，请保持整洁与畅通，禁止在以上
公共区域堆放私人物品（包括个人衣物、鞋子、报刊纸箱、床上用品以及塑料瓶等易燃
物品） ；不乱涂乱画，门上以及墙上不得张贴任何海报以及图画。为了他人安全，严禁
高空抛物。 
    Always keep the public aisle,stairs and balcony clear as these are for evacuation 
only,it is not allowed to leave personal items including clothes,shoes, 
magazine,paper boxes,beddings,plastic bottle and other inflammable things in 
those public areas.No Scrawling on the wall, it is forbidden to post any poster 
or picture on the door or wall.For safety,it is forbidden to throw anything from 
higher level. 
    16. 携带大件物品进出留学生宿舍，必须在安保处登记完毕方可进出楼宇。 
        Anyone who carries large goods or luggage needs to register for entry & exit. 
17. 宿舍内禁止饲养宠物。 
        No pet is allowed to be raised in the dormitory. 
18. 自觉遵守学校管理制度，禁止在宿舍内存在饮酒、吸烟、赌博、吸毒等影响宿舍公共秩
序或他人身心健康的活动，严禁在宿舍区内经商及推销。不得在宿舍内从事影响他人学
习与休息的活动，在宿舍使用音响、电脑等应以不影响他人为前提。 
    Observe the regulations of school.It is forbidden to drink 
alcohol,smoke,gambling,taking drugs and other illegal activities in the 
dormitory, business and marketing in the dormitory are also strictly forbidden. 
Keep the dormitory quiet, if you need to use computer or Hi-Fi,make sure that 
you will keep the volume low and not disturbing other students. 
19. 安全用电。 
        Please use the power/electricity properly. 
（1）正确使用台灯、电热水壶、电脑等低功率的安全电器； 
        Correctly use the bed lamp,kettle, computer and other low-power electronics. 
（2）宿舍内严禁使用电炉、热得快、电热器、电热毯、电吹风、电热杯、电饭锅、微波炉、
电磁灶、电烤箱、面包机、电熨斗、电热烘鞋器、电热暖宝宝、电热暖脚垫等高功率及
炊事电器，房内严禁二次拖线，严禁将拖线板、各类充电器、电源等放置在床上或床的
四周。一经发现，予以没收直至退房时归还。 
    Electric stove,electric heater,electric blanket,hair dryer, electric iron, 
rice cooker,microwave,oven,toaster,shoedryer,body warmers and other 
high-power electric equipments are strictly forbidden to use in the room，it 
is forbidden to connect power strip on another power strip, also do not leave 
the power strip，charger and any power on the bed or around the bed,it will be 
taken away and kept once we found, it will be returned when students check out. 
（3）严禁在房内自行安装与使用洗衣机。 
    It is prohibited to install and use washing machine in the room. 
（4）宿舍内严禁乱拉、乱接电线，严禁损坏、私自改动供电线路。严禁从宿舍楼内进行飞
线充电。 
    It is forbidden to randomly connect any wire,forbidden to change the power supply    
line.It is forbidden to recharge motors by pulling the wire or using power strip 
from the window,room,or dormitory. 
（5）严禁盗用公用电源。一经发现上述违规现象，服务中心管理人员有权没收违章电器并
报留学生办公室严肃处理。 
    It is forbidden to misuse the public power supply,once found, the users will   
be warned by the school authorities and the electronics will be confiscated.  
 (6) 如发生房间突然停电、停水，请立即将房间内电器设备插座拔出，确保水龙头处于关
闭状态，并立即报告总台（人离开房间时一定要确保门窗处于关闭状态）。为保障所有
学生的安全，在维修期间，严禁在房内以及宿舍公共区域内使用蜡烛等明火。 
    If blackout o r no water supply happens,please directly plug out all 
electronics,make sure that you switch off the water tap, then go to reception 
to report(Make sure that you shut the windows and door if you need to go out).To 
ensure safety,during the repairing, it is prohibited to use candle,any 
fire,flame inside the dormitory. 
20.应爱护宿舍里设施和家具，不得破坏房屋结构； 
    No damage to the Room structures and furniture. 
（1）不得私自拆装、改装或移动宿舍里的设施和家具； 
        It is forbidden to disassemble, move or change the furniture in the room. 
（2）宿舍的钥匙或门卡不得随意转借他人，严禁私自换锁、配钥匙或另加门锁。 
    Do not give the key or room card to any others. Changing the lock, make the copy                 
of the key and install a new lock are also strictly forbidden.  
（3）因使用不当损坏或丢失设施设备和家具的，照价赔偿； 
        It is required to pay for any damage and loss of the room furniture. 
（4）如不能说明造成物品损坏的直接责任人，则赔偿费由本室人员均摊。 
    The damage will be paid and shared by the students involved if it is difficult 
to identify the person who has made the damage.  
21. 如因工作需要（例如，空调、管道、消防设施等的检查和维修）要进入留学生房间，服
务中心会提前通过张贴通知等方式告知留学生，在通知规定的时间内，无论留学生是否
在房间内，服务中心工作人员都将进入房间施工或检查。遇到紧急情况（例如，火灾、
医疗急救、抢险、治安事件等） ，工作人员可在未通知同学的情况进入其房间。 
 Notice will be given to public in advance if check will be made in your room(such 
as air-condition, pipe, fire distinguisher and others) even you are not in the 
room work will be done after the notice given, and work will be done without 
any notice when emergency happens(such as fire, EMT, flood,public security 
affair and others). 
22. 保持宿舍楼层通道的畅通，所有学生物品必须放在宿舍房间内，交通工具等应按指定停
车点或车库停放，不得随意停放或带入宿舍楼。 
Please leave the aisle and all public area clean,all students ’ personal 
belongings should only be kept in the room.S tudents' vehicle (including 
motorcycle and motor-bike) all should be parked at the pointed place,they are 
not allowed to be taken into the dormitory.  
23. 凡毕业、退学的学生，从相关部门发出离校通知之日起一周内，或在学校通知离校期内
必须办理退宿手续并离开留学生楼，逾期遗留物品按无主物品处理。 
    Students need to check out their rooms within one week when they receive the 
notice from school of Graduating, Quitting or being cancelled for further 
studying, anything left in the room after these days will be considered as waste. 
24. 如有违反住宿规定者，将视其违规情节轻重，给予警告处分。严重违规者，将被取消居
住资格，所付房费不予退还并报留学生办公室严肃处理。 
    Those who violate the regulations above will be recorded a disciplinary warning 
or cancel the living right, fees will not be refunded and it will be reported 
to the international students office. 
 
四、有关费用标准（如有新的资费标准按新标准执行）Standard fees(any new policy applies 
immediately) 
1、房费 Rent fee 
（1）在留学生楼连续居住时间不足 90 天者按短期生的标准支付房费：标准是：1 号楼标
准间 130、150 元/天/间 ；1 号楼套间180元/天/间 ； 2 号楼标准间140元/天/间；
2号楼套间200元/天/间；4 号楼标准间120元/天/间； 
The standard room fee for students who will be living for less than 90 days consecutively is :
￥130 or 150/ day (one standard room in Building 1), ￥180/day(Suite room in Building 1), 
￥140/day (one standard room in Building 2) , ￥200/day(Suite room in Building 2)
￥120/day (one  standard room in Building 4).  
（2）在留学生楼连续居住时间超过90（含 90天） 天者， 按长期生标准支付房费， 标准是：
1 号楼标准间60、70、90元/天/间；1号楼套间120、130元/天/间；2号楼标准间 70、
80 元/天/间；2 号楼套间 150、160 元/天/间；4 号楼标准间 70、80 元/天/间;         
The standard room fee for students who will be living for more than 90 days  
consecutively(including 90 days)  is ￥60 or ￥70 or ￥90/day(one standard room in 
Building 1 ), ￥120 or ￥130/day(Suite room in Building 1), ￥70 or ￥80/day (one 
standard room in Building 2 ), ￥150 or ￥160/day(Suite room in Building 2), ￥70 or 
￥80/day (one standard room in Building 4 ).  
（3）留学生服务中心对寒暑假期间外出度假，保留原住房并做到以下几点的同学，按优惠
价收取房费。 
Those who are going t o leave the dormitory and still want to keep the rooms during the 
summer or winter vacation, will be allowed to pay discounted room fee if they can abide by 
the following points. 
a.寒暑假期间连续外出天数超过10 天以上者（包含10 天） 
     At lease leave the room for more than 10 days consecutively(including 10 days) 
b.外出前到总服务台办妥登记手续并付清房费,退还门卡或者钥匙 
Register in the reception, pay the rent before you leave,return the door key or door card. 
c.保证在外出期间不将房间供他人使用；  
Don’t lend the room to others . 
d.如果不能按时返校，须事先告知总台。否则，中心将收回房间重新分配。 
If you can not come back the campus on schedule, please do let the reception desk 
know.Otherwise,The service center will take back the room. 
2、电费 Electricity 
（1）电费采取先付后用的方式，自费生每人每月免费获得120 度电，超过120 度部分的电
费由居住者支付。公费生每人每月免费获得200 度电，超过200 度部分的电费由居住
者支付。 
Electricity uses the rule: Pay first use later. Free electricity consumption of 120 kwh will be 
provided for a self -supported student per month, while exceeding of this amount will be 
charged.  Free electricity consumption of 200 kwh for a scholarship student per mont h, 
while exceeding of which will be charged. 
（2）电费的结算日为每月的30日， 在每个月的第一周留学生服务中心将会把您本月的免费
用电额度输入到您的房间里。请准时查看每日低电量通知并及时进行房间充电，以免
造成突发的断电。 
The electricity fee is due on the 30th every month, while the free quota will be given to you 
within the first week  of each mon th. Please check the low electricity notice everyday and 
make sure that you will top up new electricity for the room, in case of blackout. 
 
五、留学生服务中心联系方式 Contact International Students Center 
如有疑问，可直接与我们联系，留学生服务中心联系方式如下：  
Email 地址：liuxueshenglou@hotmail.com  或者与总台直接联系。（总台电话， 本部校区：
65983001，彰武校区：65980274） 
Please find us at: 
24-hour service is offered by the International Student Centre of Tongji  
Email address : liuxueshenglou@hotmail.com  students can email us if you have any inquiries 
or call us: 65983001 main campus(Building 1 or 2) and 65980274 zhangwu campus(Building 4). 
 
友情提醒(Some clues) 
 
欢迎您入住留学生服务中心，为了您能够快乐、安心的度过您的留学生涯，特提醒几点： 
1． 请及时延长签证有效期，以免签证过期带来不必要的麻烦。 
2． 入住4号楼的同学请及时办理一卡通，并时常保持卡内有一定的余额，以免房间突
然停电时无法充电。 
3． 请及时付清各项费用（包括住宿费，网络宽带费等） 。 
4． 请保管好自己的随身物品。 （例如护照，现金等等） 
5． 请遵守学校和中心的各项规章制度。 
6． 谨防各类诈骗信息，切勿随意泄露重要个人信息。 
 
Welcome to the International Student Center, Please make sure you follow the listed points 
during your stay in our dormitory: 
1. Extend your visa in time to avoid any potential problems. 
2. Get your student card immediately from school for recharging power if you live in               
Building 4, otherwise you might not be able to recharge electricity. 
3. Pay the fees in time(Including rent,Internet) 
4. Take care of your personal belongings(Passport,cash) 
5. Abide by the rules in school 
6. Be careful with the fraud information, never give your information to strangers. 
                                           同济大学留学生服务中心 
International Student Center 
                                                  2017 年6 月15 日 
 